p8105\_hw3\_hz2710
================
Huili Zheng
10/14/2021

Load the datasets.

``` r
data("instacart")
instacart = instacart
```

## Problem 1

The goal is to do some exploration of this dataset.

The dataset has 1384617 rows and 15 columns, including of order\_id,
product\_id, add\_to\_cart\_order, reordered, user\_id, eval\_set,
order\_number, order\_dow, order\_hour\_of\_day,
days\_since\_prior\_order, product\_name, aisle\_id, department\_id,
aisle, department variables. For example, we can see the first row shows
that an item shopped in an order with id is 1, id of the product is
49302, the first item added in the cart was reordered the first time by
a user with id 112108. It was the 4th time for this user. He bought the
product at the 10th hour of the day on the 4th day of the week. Since
the last order, it had been 9 days. The product name is ‘Bulgarian
Yogurt’. The aisle id and name is 120 and ‘yogurt’. The department id
and name is 16 and ‘dairy eggs’.

There are 134 aisles here, and the most items ordered from fresh
vegetables. Fresh vegetables are common and necessary supplies and there
are many types of them.

Make a plot that shows the number of items ordered in each aisle,
limiting this to aisles with more than 10000 items ordered.

``` r
instacart %>%
  group_by(aisle) %>%
  mutate(
    aisle_count = length(aisle)
  ) %>%
  filter(aisle_count > 10000) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = aisle)) +
    geom_bar() + 
    theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, hjust = 1)) +
    labs(x = "aisle", y = "aisle count", title = "Counts of aisle") 
```

<img src="p8105_hw3_hz2710_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-2-1.png" width="90%" />

Make a table showing the three most popular items in each of the aisles
“baking ingredients”, “dog food care”, and “packaged vegetables fruits”.
Include the number of times each item is ordered in your table.

Make a table showing the mean hour of the day at which Pink Lady Apples
and Coffee Ice Cream are ordered on each day of the week; format this
table for human readers (i.e. produce a 2 x 7 table).
